---
layout: step
category: housing
title: At Risk of Eviction
---
<div class="intro">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-users" aria-hidden="true"></i> Who is this for?</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <p>This information is for people who have been through a meaningful engagement and no resolution was found. This is for people who are having a Notice of Motion served to them.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="summary">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-exclamation-circle" aria-hidden="true"></i> What you need to know</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <ul class="fa-ul">
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-search"></i>Find legal assistance. <span role="button" data-toggle="collapse" href="#collapseTen" aria-expanded="true" aria-controls="collapseTen"><a onclick="scrollToDiv('headingTen')">Who can help me?</a></span> <span class="visible-print">See steo 10</span></li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-file-text-o"></i>The document is served (given) to you by the Sheriff. You will sign acknowledgement of receipt. Your signature confirms that you have received the notice. This will be given to court as proof of service. This means it is used in court to prove that you received the document. The Sheriff should tell you what the document is. You can ask the Sheriff to explain to you.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-file-text-o"></i>Attached to the Notice of Motion is an affidavit from the landlord or person in charge, describing the reasons for the eviction. This is called the <strong>Founding Affidavit</strong>.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>The Notice of Motion must also be signed by the legal representative of the owner / landlord (this is usually their lawyer).</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>On the document you will see the word “APPLICANT”. The landlord or landowner is the APPLICANT in the matter. The applicant is the party who starts the legal proceedings.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>The City of Cape Town MUST be cited (referred to) in every eviction application.  This means their names should be on the document, and they are expected to respond.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>If you do not want to be evicted, it is very important for you to OPPOSE the eviction.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>If you do not go to court to oppose, the Magistrate can order an eviction order in your absence. This is known as a <strong>DEFAULT JUDGEMENT</strong>. </li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i><strong>EVEN IF YOU DO NOT HAVE A LAWYER</strong>, go to court and oppose the matter and ask for a postponement to get a lawyer. Try to seek assistance and guidance when receiving any eviction documents.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-lightbulb-o"></i><strong>TIP! </strong> Look for these details on the notice of motion:</li>
        <ol>
          <li><strong>Court</strong> - This is the court where you need to appear</li>
		  <li><strong>Parties</strong> - This is who is being evicted. Make sure the names are correct</li>
		  <li><strong>Date</strong> - This is the date you have to file papers to the court. This is when you hand your legal papers to the court. Date you have to appear in court</li>
		  <li>The document must state that it’s an application in terms of Section 4(1) of PIE</li>
		  <li>The City must be cited as the Second Respondent</li>
		  <li><strong>Service address</strong> - This is where you should serve your opposing papers</li>
		</ol>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
