---
layout: step
category: housing
title: At Risk of Eviction
---
<div class="intro">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-users" aria-hidden="true"></i> Who is this for?</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <p>You have received a Section 4(2) notice and should now take action on the next step</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="summary">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-exclamation-circle" aria-hidden="true"></i> What you need to know</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <ul class="fa-ul">
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>These documents are served by you or your legal representative on the landlord or landowner and their legal representative. It is your reply to the Notice of Motion.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-exclamation-triangle"></i>This step is very important. It makes it clear to the court that you do not want to be evicted, and are challenging the eviction.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>If you are opposing the application, you are called the RESPONDENT(S). In eviction matters, the respondent is always the occupier/tenant?</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>The Notice to Oppose is a simple document saying that you will oppose the eviction application. Remember: This must be filed with the court on date given in the Notice of Motion.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>A Notice to Oppose has the same structure as the Notice of Motion. The notice is signed by your legal representative.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>After you file the Notice to Oppose, the next document to file is the Opposing Affidavit. In the Opposing Affidavit; you reply to the things the landlord or landowner said against you in the Notice of Motion. </li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-file-text-o"></i><span class="hidden-print"><a target="_blank" href="/docs/eviction-opposing-affidavit.pdf">Use this template</a> to easily write your affidavit.</span></li><span class="visible-print">Use the template at the back of this document to easily write your affidavit.</span>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-lightbulb-o"></i><emphasis>Example: </emphasis>The Notice of Motion says you have not paid your rent. In your Opposing Affidavit you deny the allegation and explain that you have paid your rent. You will attach a proof of payment to show this.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>The Opposing Affidavit is important as it will be your side of the story that the court hears. </li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>It is important to reply to everything the landlord or landowner (APPLICANT) says in its documents given to the court. The landlord may put things in the court documents that are not true.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>If the court only receives papers from the landlord or landowner, the court accepts that version as the truth.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>The Opposing Affidavit is signed by you as the tenant/occupier.</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
