---
layout: step
category: housing
title: At Risk of Eviction
---
<div class="intro">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-users" aria-hidden="true"></i> Who is this for?</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <p>If you have recently discovered you are at risk of being evicted from where you stay, here is some advice on the first step to take.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="summary">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-exclamation-circle" aria-hidden="true"></i> What you need to know</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <ul class="fa-ul">
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-comments-o"></i>Attempt to have a conversation and allow both sides to try and understand the circumstances and resolve the matter. There are many different things that can cause an eviction.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>If meaningful engagement does not happen, or you can’t resolve the issue, the legal process will start. This is when the court gets involved.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>Meaningful engagement is not a legal process, but it helps when the legal process starts because you are then able to say that you have made an attempt to resolve the matter.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-lightbulb-o"></i><strong>TIP!</strong> Always keep a record of all your documents and conversations with your landlord or government officials. Write down the date and details of the conversation so that you always have proof it happened.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-lightbulb-o"></i><emphasis>Example:</emphasis> Angela Khumalo lives in a house/flat and has not paid her rent and is in arrears. She approaches the landlord to meaningfully engage and try and come to an arrangement with the landlord the to pay the outstanding rent.Angela Khumalo lives in a house/flat and has not paid her rent and is in arrears. She approaches the landlord to meaningfully engage and try and come to an arrangement with the landlord the to pay the outstanding rent.</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
