---
layout: step
category: housing
title: Disconnected electricity
---
<div class="intro">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-users" aria-hidden="true"></i> Who is this for?</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <p>If your landlord has cut off your electricity as a means to get you to leave, follow this guide to enforce your rights.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="summary">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-exclamation-circle" aria-hidden="true"></i> What you need to know</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <ul class="fa-ul">
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>If they have disconnected your electricity, tell your landlord that it is against the law and that they must turn it back on</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>This is an unlawful tactic used by some landlords to make your life uncomfortable and intimidate you into leaving. Electricity might be cut off for many days in a row, or randomly for a few hours.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>According to the Rental Housing Act and the Unfair Practice Regulations, your electricity cannot be cut off, UNLESS:</li>
		<ol>
		  <li>There is an emergency</li>
		  <li>The landlord needs to do maintenance</li>
		  <li>You are in arrears and fail to pay your arrears within 7 days of the landlord letting you know that you should. </li>
		</ol>  
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-exclamation-triangle"></i><strong>This is illegal!</strong></li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>Whenever something is done to force you out of your property without a court order, this is called a constructive eviction. </li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>Sometimes landlords or landowners force you to leave by cutting off services, locking you out, sending you threatening SMSes, or sending someone to scare you.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>A landlord or land owner cannot intimidate you to leave the property or force you to move out.</li>
      <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>This is illegal in terms of the Constitution, PIE Act, The Rental Housing Act and the Unfair Practice Regulations.</li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
