---
layout: step
category: housing
title: Obstruction
---
<div class="intro">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-users" aria-hidden="true"></i> Who is this for?</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <p>If your landlord has locked you out of your home in an effort to force you out this is the next step to take once you have documented the obstruction.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="summary">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-exclamation-circle" aria-hidden="true"></i> What you need to know</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <ul class="fa-ul">
      <li>
        <i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>This is an urgent situation which requires you to file a Spoliation Order. A Spoliation Order will order your landlord or the owner to let you back in immediately. You can do this by seeking urgent legal assistance or go to the Rental Housing Tribunal and explaining your urgent complaint.
      </li>
      <li>
        <i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>Five things you need to know about a spoliation order
        <ol>
          <li>A spoliation is a remedy used when one’s "peaceful and undisturbed possession" has been disrupted illegally. "Peaceful and undisturbed possession" means that you have been living in your home without anyone trying to kick you out.</li>
          <li>A spoliation application is URGENT in nature and will usually require legal assistance (a lawyer). URGENT means you must go to court as soon as you can - if you can, go immediately!</li>
          <li>Its object is to return possession to the person who was deprived (evicted), and is based on the principle that no person should take the law into their own hands.  </li>
          <li>A spoliation order is final. This means neither the tenant nor the landlord  can challenge the judges decision.</li>
          <li>A spoliation is an application procedure which means that evidence is filed by an affidavit and presented to the Magistrate in Court. You do not need to stand up in court and testify.</li>
        </ol>
      </li>
      <li>
        <i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>Contacts for legal assistance
        <ul>
          <li>
            Ndifuna Ukwazi Law Centre<br>
            Telephone: (021) 012 5094<br>
            Physical address: 18 Roeland Street, Cape Town, 8001
          </li>
          <li>
            Lawyers for Human Rights <br>
            Telephone:  (021) 424 8561 <br>
            Physical address: 4th Floor, Vunani Chambers, 33 Church Street, City Centre, Cape Town, 8001.
          </li>
          <li>
            Legal Resources Centre <br>
            Telephone:  (021) 481 3000 <br>
            Physical address: 54 Shortmarket Street, Greenmarket Place, Cape Town, 8001
          </li>
          <li>
            Cape Town Justice Centre <br>
            Telephone: (021) 426 4126 <br>
            Fax: (021) 949 2534 <br>
            Physical address: 3rd Floor South African Reserve Bank Building, 60 St Georges Mall, Cape Town, 8001
          </li>
          <li>
            Bellville Justice Centre<br>
            Telephone: (021) 949 3062 <br>
            Fax: (021) 949 2534 <br>
            Physical address: 68 Durban Road, Van Der Stel Bldg, Cnr Voortrekker & Durban Street, Bellville, 7535
          </li>
          <li>
            Bellville Justice Centre<br>
            Telephone: (021) 949 3062 <br>
            Fax: (021) 949 2534 <br>
            Physical address: 68 Durban Road, Van Der Stel Bldg, Cnr Voortrekker & Durban Street, Bellville, 7535
            Mitchells Plain satellite office <br>
            Telephone: (021) 370 4257 <br>
            Physical address: Mitchells Plain Court, Mitchell’s Plain, 7785
          </li>
          <li>
            Athlone Justice Centre <br>
            Telephone: (021) 6975252 <br>
            Fax: (021) 6975316 <br>
            Physical address: 2nd Floor, Melofin Centre, Athlone, 7764
          </li>
          <li>
            Stellenbosch Justice Centre <br>
            Telephone: (021) 882 9221 <br>
            Fax: (021) 882 9237 <br>
            Physical address: Office 201, 2nd Floor, Eikestad Mall, Bird Street, Stellenbosch, 7600
          </li>
          <li>
            Western & Northern Cape Regional Office <br>
            Telephone: (021)8613000 <br>
            Fax: (021)8868657 <br>
            Physical address: Shiraz House, Brandwacht Office Park, Trumali Street, Stellenbosch, 7600
          </li>
        </ul>
        LEGAL AID SA <br>
        OTHER LEGAL ASSISTANCE: You can also call the following numbers to get free legal advice from Legal Aid SA: Toll-Free Legal Aid Advice Line: 0800 110 110 Send a Please Call Me and a qualified Legal Advisor will call you back: 079 835 7179 <br><br>
        CAPE LAW SOCIETY All attorneys in South Africa have to provide 24 hours per year of free legal assistance to indigent members of the public. The Cape Law Society allocates attorneys' pro bono work in the Western Cape, Eastern Cape and Northern Cape.<br><br>
        Cape Law Society
        Telephone:  (021) 443 6700   <br>
        Fax: (021) 443 6751/2   <br>
         Email address: cls@capelawsoc.law.za <br>
        Physical address: 29th & 30th Floors, Absa Centre, 2 Riebeeck Street, Cape Town, 8001
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
