---
layout: step
category: support-grants
guide: child-support-grant
title: Check the requirements
for: If you are interested in applying for the Child Support grant this is the first step of the process.
---
- The first step in applying for the Child Support grant is to check if you meet all the requirements. The requirements are listed below:
  - The person applying for the Child Support grant must be the primary caregiver of the child/children for whom they are applying. A primary caregiver is the person who lives with the child and is responsible for the day-to-day care of the child.
  - The primary caregiver must be a South African citizen, permanent resident or refugee
  - Both the applicant and the child must live in South Africa
  - The child must be 18 years of age or younger
  - The person applying and their spouse must meet the requirements of the means test;
  - You cannot apply for more than six non biological children

- You will also need the following documents before you apply:
  - You will need a birth certificate for the child
  - You will need a 13 digit bar coded identity document for the person applying
  - A marriage certificate if you are married
  - Proof on income e.g. an income statement or bank statements

- [Get more information](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/10obA7Vgs-2RCEbwumyfTAQxRiS_NiJ1K) on the supporting documents required.

- <a class="act" target="_blank" href="http://pmg-assets.s3-website-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/docs/100209regulations.pdf">Section 11(1) of the 2008 Regulations of the Social Assistance Act of 2004</a> states that SASSA may accept alternative proof of identification where the person currently has no valid proof. If you do not have an identity document you will be asked to complete and sign a sworn affidavit confirming your identity. If you do not have a birth certificate you will be asked to sign and complete a sworn affidavit confirming the identity of the child.The affidavit must be completed at the SASSA office. You will also be asked to bring an affidavit from a reputable person (like a councillor, traditional leader, social worker, priest or school principal) who can verify that they know who you are. SASSA may also ask for other documents, like a clinic card or a school report etc. Refugees can provide the Section 24 permit as proof of refugee status and identity.