---
layout: step
category: support-grants
guide: child-support-grant
title: Fill in the application form at the nearest SASSA branch
for: If you have met the requirements for the Child Support grant and are unsure what to do next follow this step.
---
- To apply for the grant you will have to go to your nearest SASSA district office or counter service point with all your supporting documentation. The application for the social assistance grants is free and the process should take approximately 2 hours.

- **TIP:** If you are unable to go to the office yourself you may have a friend or family member apply on your behalf; with letter from you as
applicant authorizing the application. Alternatively you may call the SASSA office to request a home visit, although you may wait a while for this.

- Once at the office you will be required to fill in the application form in the presence of a SASSA officer. When your application is completed you
will be given a receipt. Keep this receipt - it is your only proof of application.

## Contact details for SASSA offices

SASSA offices are open Monday to Friday between 07:30 and 16:00. The offices are closed on Saturday and Sunday.

<br>

### Cape Town
Physical Address: 48 Queen Victoria Street, 8000

Postal Address: P.O. Box 131, Cape Town, 8000

Telephone: (021) 481 9700

<br>

### Eerste River
Physical Address: 42 Main Road, Eerste River, 7100

Postal Address: Private Bag X1

Telephone: (021) 904 1021

<br>

### George
Physical Address: Rentzburghof, 42 Courtney Street, George, 7100

Postal Address: Private Bag, X6508

Telephone: (044) 801 4300

<br>

### Gugulethu
Physical Address: C/O Bishops Court and Fezeka, Gugulethu, 7760

Postal Address: Private Bag, X11, Athlone, 7760

Telephone: (021) 638 5151/2/3/4

<br>

### Khayelitsha
Physical Address: Julius Tsolo Street, Khayelitsha (near station)

Postal Address: Private Bag, X001

Telephone: (021) 364 1330

<br>

### Mitchell’s Plain
Physical Address: 45 Alpha Street, Wespoort Park, Mitchell Plain

Postal Address: Private Bag, X10

Telephone: (021) 370 4800

<br>

### Caledon
Physical Address: Melofin Building C/O Birfwood Street and Klipfontein, Athlone, 7760

Postal Address: 10 Plein Street, Caledon, 7234

Telephone: (028) 214 3000

<br>

### Wynberg
Address: William Herbert Sports Ground, Rosmead Ave, Wynberg, Cape Town, 7800

Phone: 021 710 9800

<br>

### Paarl
Address: 7 New St, Esterville, Paarl, 7646

Phone: 072 205 0685

<br>

### Belville
Address: Belgravia, Cape Town, 7530

Phone: 021 944 7700