---
layout: step
category: support-grants
guide: child-support-grant
title: Collect your Child Support Grant each month
for: People who have been successful in their application for the Child Support Grant and want to understand what happens next.
---
- You will receive a monthly grant paid out in your preferred manner. If you selected to be paid into a bank account, this should happen automatically. If you selected cash, you will need to go collect it at a SASSA paypoint or a Post Office, each month.
- You can visit any paypoint each month, you do not need to go to the same one. You can even collect in a different province, if you like, although it is advised to use the same one to prevent potential issues. It is also advised that if you will be travelling to a different province, to let SASSA know in advance. You can contact them for free on [0800 601 011](tel:0800601011).
- Your first payment will include back-pay since application date.
- If you selected to collect cash, it is important you collect it every month. If it has not collected for 3 consecutive months, the grant will elapse and you will need to reapply for it.
- There is no need to renew this grant - each year SASSA sends a registered letter asking for up to date information about your current financial circumstances.
- If your financial circumstances improve, you must let SASSA know - receiving a grant when one is not eligible is fraud!
- The grant payment will stop when the child reaches the age of 18, if the child is admitted to a state-funded institute for over 6 months, or if the child dies.
- **TIP!** Always remember to keep all your contact details up to date with SASSA and inform them immediately if your or the child’s circumstances change.