---
layout: step
category: access-education
title: Access to education
---
<h2 class="title">
  <i class="fa fa-fw fa-question-circle" aria-hidden="true"></i> Obtain a letter from the school(s) stating the reasons why admission has been declined
</h2>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="summary">
      <h3 class="header">Key points</h3>
      <ul class="fa-ul">
        <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>Schools are <b>not allowed to discriminate</b> against learners during the admission process</li>
        <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-gavel"></i>A parent has the <b>right to choose which school</b> their child can attend</li>
        <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-file-text"></i><b>Use <a href="">this draft</a></b> to write a request to the school, asking them for the reasons why admission has been declined</li>
        <li><i class="fa-li fa fa-clock-o"></i>This process often takes between <b>6 and 7 weeks</b></li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="intro">
      Schools are not allowed to discriminate against learners during the admission process. If you have been refused admission to all schools you have applied to, in order to take this matter further you need to request a formal letter from the school stating why your child was denied access. Please note that this process often takes between 6 and 7 weeks, so use our handy reminder service to follow up in due course.
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="legal-info">
      <div class="header">
        <i class="fa fa-fw fa-gavel" aria-hidden="true"></i> How can the school governing body help? 
      </div>
      <div class="body">
        <p>If the school principal rejected your application because the school is unable to cater for your child’s special-needs, then the governing body might be able to intervene. For example, if your child needs wheelchair access, and the school does not cater for this, then they could deny access. In this case the governing body could adjust the school’s budget to make accomodations for your the work required to add wheelchair access.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="detailed-info">
      <div class="header">
        <i class="fa fa-fw fa-info-circle" aria-hidden="true"></i> Haven't applied to schools yet? Use this simple tool to find schools in your area.
      </div>
        <div class="body">
          <p>Q: Did you know that a public school may not discriminate any learner with regards to the admission process at School?</p>
          <p>A: A public school must admit learners and serve their educational requirement without unfairly discriminating in any way: <a class="act" target="_blank" href="https://www.acts.co.za/south-african-schools-act/5_admission_to_public_schools">SASA Section 5 (1)</a></p>
          <p>Q: Did you know that a parent has the right to choose which school their child can attend?</p>
          <p>A: In determining the placement of a learner with special education needs, the Head of Department and principal must take into account the rights and wishes of the parents of such learner: <a class="act" target="_blank" href="https://www.acts.co.za/south-african-schools-act/5_admission_to_public_schools"> SASA Section 5 (6)</a></p>
        </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
