---
layout: step
category: housing
title: Filing complaint 
---
<div class="intro">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-users" aria-hidden="true"></i> Who is this for?</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <p>If you have received a letter from the tribunal confirming receipt of your complaint and wondering what happens next then this information might be useful.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="summary">
  <div class="header"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-exclamation-circle" aria-hidden="true"></i> What you need to know</div>
  <hr>
  <div class="content">
    <ul class="fa-ul">
      <li>
        <i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>"After the investigation, the tribunal staff decide whether or not the complaint is about a dispute that may be an unfair practice. After you submit the complaint, they then have 30 days to decide.
      </li>

      <li>
        <i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>If they do not think your complaint involves an unfair practice, they must send a letter to let you know. If possible, the Tribunal should also let you know where else you can take your issue. Tribunal staff will then close your file. If the Tribunal staff think that an unfair practice may be involved, they will continue to try and solve the dispute, and must let you know about what is decided.
      </li>

      <li>
        <i class="fa-li fa fa-info-circle"></i>TIP: If there is any chance that the dispute could be about an unfair practice, the Tribunal staff must continue to deal with the complaint. If the staff are not trained well or if there are not enough people doing the work, this could mean that some cases are incorrectly closed.  If you feel that your complaint has not been dealt with properly, report this. Send an email to <a href="mailto:nathan.adriaanse@westerncape.gov.za">nathan.adriaanse@westerncape.gov.za</a> or ask to speak to him at 27 Wale Street. Nathan Adriaanse is the director of Communication and Stakeholder Relations in the Department of Human Settlements.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </div>
</div>
